Add a glossary (#148)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/gettingstarted/glossary.md

# Glossary

This article contains explanations for various terms and systems you will likely encounter when using NeoForge.

## A

### Access Transformer

Access Transformers, also known as ATs, are a way to change the access modifiers (`private`, `protected`, `public`) and the `final` state of a class, field or method. For more information, see the [Access Transformers article][accesstransformerdocs].

## B

### Block State

_See [Blockstates][blockstatedocs]._

### Bukkit

Bukkit is a software for Minecraft servers that allows for installing [plugins][plugin]. Plugins run exclusively on the server, allowing vanilla clients to connect (in contrast to [mods][mod], which are generally expected to be present on both sides).

Bukkit itself was discontinued in 2014, but forks of the project have appeared and are used to this day. Some of the most prominent ones include Spigot and Paper.

## C

### Client

The "display" side of the game, responsible for displaying information to the user, and for processing inputs. The opposite of the client is the [server].

_See also: [Sides][sidesdocs]_

### Coremod

> A coremod is the term for an ASM transformer file used within a mod. Traditionally, coremods were written as JavaScript files that were then loaded by a special coremod engine during [Forge][forge] or [NeoForge][neoforge] startup. More recently, Java coremods were developed as a more robust alternative. Coremods have a high entry barrier and are generally considered a last resort solution for most problems. Many problems can be solved easier using API methods, or using [mixins][mixin].
> 
> Historically, the term "coremod" has also been incorrectly used for [library mods][librarymod].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A coremod is the term for an ASM transformer file used within a mod. Originally written in Java, later as JavaScript files, they are then loaded by a special coremod engine during [Forge][forge] or [NeoForge][neoforge] startup. More recently, Java coremods were reintroduced as a more robust alternative. Coremods have a high entry barrier and are generally considered a last-resort solution for most problems. Many problems can be solved more easily using API methods or [mixins][mixin].

As the older-style Java coremods had to maintain separation from mod code, they often were distributed as standalone mods. Over time, those evolved into code libraries, so the term "coremod" nowadays is often used incorrectly for any kind of [library mod][librarymod].
```

Mods may modify any part of the game, ranging from singular bugfixes to adding huge amounts of content, sometimes even more than the base game offers. In the Minecraft context, the term "mod" should be distinguished from other mechanisms to modify the game, such as resource packs, data packs, or plugins.

### Mod Loader

A mod loader is a program whose purpose is to load [mods][mod] into the game. All modern modding frameworks for Minecraft include a mod loader and a [modding API][moddingapi].

### Modded

The term "modded" refers to a game with [mods][mod] installed. Since mods exist for other games, the term may also be applied to those (e.g., "modded Terraria", "modded Skyrim"). The opposite of modded is [vanilla].

### Modder

Short for "mod developer", i.e. the person creating [mods][mod].

### ModDevGradle

An alternative gradle plugin for mod development, designed to be easier-to-use (although slightly less powerful) than [NeoGradle][neogradle].

### Modding

The process of creating [mods][mod].

### Modding API

> An API created to help [modders][modder] in [modding]. Generally includes ways to make integrating with vanilla systems easier. All modern modding frameworks for Minecraft include a modding API and a [mod loader][modloader].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API) created to help [modders][modder] in [modding]. Generally includes ways to make integrating with vanilla systems easier. All modern modding frameworks for Minecraft include a modding API and a [mod loader][modloader].
```
